Installation instructions for SklaffKOM v1.32, March 9 1996, June 2025.

Please note: these instructions are out of date.  Please find updated instructions here: https://github.com/joacimmelin/sklaffkom-1.32/wiki/Install-Instructions

What is SklaffKOM?
------------------ 
SklaffKOM is a computer-based conference system, much like KOM. It's a
command-driven, simple groupware for interuser communication.  For
rules and stuff regarding distribution of the program, see file
COPYING.  This program is dedicated to the memory of Staffan
Bergstrom, a BBS-user who died much to young.

How to install SklaffKOM on your favorite UN*X system
----------------------------------------------------- 
SklaffKOM was never intended to be portable to every possible UN*X
system around, but it seems to work nice with vanilla BSD and SysV
systems. The program compiles ok with gcc and cc on SunOS, Interactive
Unix, 386BSD, MT_XINU, DG/UX, LINUX, UNIXWARE and ULTRIX. I haven't
tested it on any other systems, but I think it would be quite easy to
get it up and running. Since I don't know very much about what differs
between UNIX-systems, the various #defines are quite braindead. You
probably have to change the #defines in some places for new systems.

1. Create a user named "sklaff" on your system. This is the user that
should own all files used by SklaffKOM and it's also the only person
that is allowed to run the "sklaffadm" program for SklaffKOM
administration. You should be able to login as sklaff and get a shell
prompt.

2. Unpack this archive somewhere, for example in /usr/local/src.  It
is wise to do this when you are logged in as sklaff. Use for example
the command line "uncompress < sklaff.tar.Z | tar xvof -".

3. Configure SklaffKOM. There are a few files you must edit.  First
edit the makefile in the sklaff-1.32 directory. If you're not using
gcc, change CC to something else (cc) and modify "-O2" to "-O" in
CFLAGS.  Define where you want the sklaff database to reside (default
/usr/local/sklaff, it you change this, you must change in sklaff.h
also) and where you want the exectables to go (default
/usr/local/bin). Also define LIBS as the extra libraries you need.
You must almost certainly change this for untested systems.

The next file to edit is sklaff-1.32/sklaff.h. This file defines just
about everything in SklaffKOM. Normally, you just have to change the
following #defines.

Target system, this is either BSD, SYSV, DG_UX, UNIXWARE, LINUX,
ULTRIX, SUNOS or MT_XINU. SYSV means ISC v3.

Language desired, this is either ENGLISH or SWEDISH. The database
supports multiple languages so you can compile the system once again
after changing this define if you want two different executables, one
for each language. Remember to save to old "sklaffkom"-executable
under a different name first so it won't get overwritten.

MODEM_POOL - this variable contains the name of the terminal server
(for BSD) or tty port (for SYSV) running as a modem pool. You only
have to define this if you want to check if the people reaching
SklaffKOM via the terminal server/tty have paid their fee. If you plan
to setup SklaffKOM for free, define this as something silly (i.e.
"silly").

MODEM_GROUP - Group id for people who must pay to access SklaffKOM
from the MODEM_POOL host/tty. All other groups may access SklaffKOM
for free except INET_GROUP.

INET_GROUP - Group id for people who only can access SklaffKOM from
Internet and not from the MODEM_POOL host/tty. These people don't have
to pay a fee.

If the environment variable TERM is not set or set equal to the
#define NO_TERM the #define SKLAFF_TERM is used for clearing the
screen when SklaffKOM starts up.

All other #defines may be left "as is", but you may want to browse
through them to be sure everything looks ok. If you're planning to run
SklaffKOM from another directory than /usr/local/sklaff, you have to
change a lot of defines in this file, in the section "Files used by
SklaffKOM".

Programs used by SklaffKOM.  Check those and change them if any of
your common programs reside somwhere else or needs options.  "ls" MUST
output the filenames in ONE column, this is "ls -1" for BSD and just
"ls" for SYSV in LSOPTIONS.  The *OPT #defines are quite akward, but I
couldn't find any other way of solving the problem caused by the way
execl works.

You can browse through the "Change nothing below this line..." section
to make sure everything gets defined ok for your system and make
necessary changes.

The rest of sklaff.h contains function prototypes for all functions in
SklaffKOM, both for ANSI C and K&R C.

4. Edit SklaffKOMs infofiles. These files reside in sklaff-1.11/etc
and contains system-specific information. The files you should edit
are.

inet - File displayed if you're trying to access SklaffKOM from the
MODEM_POOL and belong to the INET_GROUP group.

pay - File displayed if you're trying to access SklaffKOM from the
MODEM_POOL and belong to the MODEM_GROUP group and haven't paid your
fee.

newacct - File displayed by the sklaffacct-program containing a short
presentation of SklaffKOM and instructions for applying for an
account.

news - Newsfile containing news about the system. Updated by "sklaff"
and displayed everytime someone logs in.

info - File displayed with the sklaffkom "information" command.
Contains information about the system in general, i.e. machine, OS,
version and so on.

5. Time to make it. Just type "make" in sklaff-1.11 and wait. You may
have to patch the source files a little to get it through the compiler
if you're running a system we haven't tested. After a few minutes
(fast system) you should have three executables, "sklaffkom",
"sklaffacct" and "sklaffadm". DON'T try to run any of them yet,
because it won't work.  NEVER STRIP SKLAFFKOM, IT NEEDS THE SYMBOL
INFORMATION TO RUN.

6. Become root and install SklaffKOM with "make install". This copies
all executables to where you defined them to go. Don't worry about
error messages here if they are ignored. 

7. Install the database files (still as root). THIS DELETES ANY
PREVIOUS DATABASE FILES, SO BE CAREFUL HERE! Just type "make
installdb". This creates the directories etc, user and db and installs
relevant databases for both swedish and english executables.

8. Run "sklaffkom" to start the program (you can't run the program as
root so login as something else). You should get a command prompt and
should be able to end the program with "logout". If everything looks
ok, you have probably made it.

9. Normally, users start the program by typing "sklaffkom". If you
like to use captive accounts, set the login shell to "sklaffkom".

10. If you're using captive accounts, you may want to add an account
for new users.  Do this by creating a user "account" or "konto"
without a password and with "sklaffacct" as login shell.  "sklaffacct"
allows a person to choose login name and password, then sends the
account application by mail to user "sklaff".  All account
applications are also logged in the file etc/acctlog.

11. "sklaffadm" if fairly easy to use. Just type "sklaffadm" to get a
list of possible commands.  Use this to delete texts and snoop around
in the database, as well as disable and enable users and change their
paydate (for how long they have paid, in format YYMMDD).

12. The user documentationen for the system is available with an
online "help" command. Detailed system documentation doesn't exists
yet, but see the file ADDING for information on adding your own
commands to SklaffKOM.

13. SklaffKOM has a mailinglist called "sklaffkom-list@skom.se".  If
you are interested in discussions about SklaffKOM, please join this
list by mailing "sklaffkom-list-request@skom.se".  For questions and
bug-reports mail "sklaff@skom.se".
